AMBER HINDS: Our next
video is from Sandy Feldman.
Sandy is a web designer.
She designs and codes
accessible and responsive sites
and custom word press themes and
is also a freelancer for CNIB.
Frontier digital accessibility
and inclusive media and design.
Helping developers understand
and fix accessibility problems.
Today, Sandy will be talking
about how to choose a plug-in
for accessibility.
I don't believe that Sandy is
here but feel free to engage
with other attendees in the
idea's section of the chat
and we will be back in about
15 minutes with another video.
SANDY FELDMAN: My name is
Sandy Feldman and I'm gonna talk
about picking plug-ins
for accessibility.
And five things that you can do
to keep your site accessible.
Because plug-ins will break sites.
So, first thing is to
test your theme and uh,
before you install a plug-in
and pick your plug-in carefully,
test the theme again and
then I'm gonna talk a bit
about accessibility plug-ins and
the stop-gap solution you can use.
So, check your theme.
Make sure that everything can
be accessed with the keyboard
and use automated
accessibility testing tools.
Keyboard access,
first thing is you navigate
through the site using the tab key.
And the first thing you should come
across is the skipped content link
or skip navigation.
It's really important because
it's gonna let your keyboard users
not have to tab through
the entire navigation.
Make sure that each Inter
app development gets focus
and that focus is always fist balled
and that it's in a logical order
which is usually left to
right, top to bottom.
And you can activate any interactive
elements using your space bar,
your enter key or your arrow key.
The testing tools, there's a lot
of them, a lot of different ones.
And none of them is perfect.
They all miss things and I'm
gonna talk about four tools
and show the differences between
what they catch and what they miss.
So, first one is
Wave, then SiteImprove
and then Lighthouse and aXe.
So, Wave is a browser
extension that you can add.
It comes from wave.webaim.org.
You can go there as a page.
SiteImprove, so SiteImprove in this
situation caught a lot more errors.
Wave cost caught 88 contrast errors
and one error but 25 concerns
to check out.
SiteImprove caught duplicate
element IDs, page regions
without accessible names,
headings were not structured
there's orphan contact and
it found the contrast errors
as well as font size errors.
Lighthouse says the
site is 97% accessible.
But it did catch the problems
with contrast and headings.
aXe came up with 184 problematic
elements and it goes into detail
in the app.
So, once you've tested the
site and you see what kind
of shape it's in,
pick your plug-in.
Every plug-in has got
information associated with it.
How many installs there are,
reviews, when it was last updated
and whether or not it's compatible
with your version of word press.
So, I have two
plug-ins on the screen.
The information about them.
One has 900 plus four
and a half star reviews.
The other was last updated
four days ago 5 million
plus active installations and
it's compatible with my version
of WordPress.
The other one has 20 active
installations, one five star review.
We can guess who wrote that.
Last update three years ago and
untested with a version of WordPress.
So, use the information
to pick which plug-in.
They both do the same thing.
And install that plug-in and activate
it and then a check the theme again.
Make sure that everything can
be accessed with the keyboard
and use your automated
tools to check out the site.
You do this for every plug-in you
install, right after it's installed.
Because if you do this
task, at the end
of the project after you've got,
you know 10 plug-ins in their
and there's something the matter
it can be a lot of work to sort out
what plug-in introduced the errors.
So, now I'm going to talk about
a particular kind of plug-in
and that's an
accessibility overlay.
And overlays are, I’m going to read
here from the overlayfactsheet.com.
Overlays are a broad term
for technologies that aim
to improve the
accessibility of a website.
They apply third-party source
code (typically JavaScript)
to make improvements to the
front-end code of the website.
And the goal is to make the
site accessible without needing
to do anything else.
And there'll be a lot of people
who you know these days are being
told the site needs to be accessible.
There's legislation maybe there's
a lawsuit pending can you do
in the next half hour.
And a plug-in like that is
going to look so tempting.
Oh my gosh, I just install
it and activate it and boom,
the site accessible.
Accessibility overlays don't work.
They look like they're working.
They look like they're working
because they add, if you can see,
if you can use a mouse they add
some things that can be helpful
for people but if you use assistive
technology, overlays get in there
and they mess up that technology.
So, that people who have
specific settings that allow them
to access the web and are
not able to otherwise,
the overlays interfere with that.
So, this is to the point where
their software called accessibyebye
that you can download
at accesibyebye.org
that will turn off overlays
to make the site accessible.
All right, and then you can
find out more about overlays
at overlayfacsheet.com.
So, a quote in here from Lainey
Feingold who is an American lawyer
who specializes in accessibility.
And she says, And if you need
another reason to say no,
these tools don't even
protect against lawsuits.
So, it's not a valuable
solution on any level.
There is a stop-gap
solution you can use.
If you're using WordPress.
And that is a plug-in
by Joe Dawson.
And it's called a WP
hyphen accessibility.
And I'm quoting Joe here.
The plug-in is intended to help
with deficiencies commonly found
in themes and to solve some
issues in WordPress core.
So, most of the plug-ins feature
can be turned off so you just use
what you really need.
For example, most themes will
have that skip navigation,
that skipped content link.
The plug-ins add one but if you've
got one in the theme you're using,
you don't need it.
So, he says, I don't really
want people to use it forever.
It's a stop-gap.
It lets you address
urgent concerns in a way
that doesn't make things worse
and it gives you that little bit
of breathing space to find an
accessible theme and implemented
in a way that keeps it accessible.
So, again, for accessibility
and plug-ins that relationship.
You test your theme, you pick your
plug-in carefully using the reviews
and the number of installs
and when it was updated last
and how many users are using it.
Install it, activate it,
test the site again and see
if it made trouble or not.
And accessibility
overlays do not work
and the WP accessibility
plug-in is a stopgap solution.
My name is Sandy Feldman
and you can find out more
at SandyFeldman.com
or a11yready.com.
Thank you very much.